#summary Trying out CIF on Amazon's EC2

= Introduction =

These instructions are for launching a demo EC2 instance of CIF. The image in its default configuration is not meant for production because it has limited disk space. 

A micro instance is good enough for a demo, but performance will be poor if you enable analytics as well. If you want to try analytics, use a larger instance size.

= Details =

Currently, the AMI is only available in the East(Virginia) region. 
The AMI ID is *ami-20ba1a49*. 

  * For instructions about configuring and launching an EC2 instance, follow the instructions from Amazon's site [http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AWSEC2/latest/GettingStartedGuide/GetStartedLinux.html Get Started with EC2 with a Linux/UNIX Instance]. 

  * Once at the *Quick Launch Wizard*, select *More Amazon Machine Images* and enter *ami-20ba1a49* in the search box on the following page. Select the resulting image follow the rest of the Amazon guide to get it online.

  * When configuring the security group, the only inbound ports that need to be permitted are TCP 443 for access to the CIF API and TCP 22 for SSH access.

  * The username required to connect to the instance is *ubuntu*. SSH authentication is restricted to SSH keys and none of the users have passwords.

  * SSH Example:
{{{
$ ssh -i EC2PrivKey.pem ubuntu@ec2-xx-xx-xx-xx.compute-1.amazonaws.com
}}}

= Configure CIF =

Once the instance starts up, a few changes need to be made before it will start working. 

For more details on what these commands do, refer to the full server install guide [http://code.google.com/p/collective-intelligence-framework/wiki/ServerInstall here].


 # Switch to the cif user.
{{{
$ sudo su - cif
}}}
 # Add a role key that will be used to generate feeds.
{{{
$ cif_apikeys -u role_everyone_feed -a -g everyone -G everyone
}}}
 # Add a CIF user to get an API key that will be used to access CIF with the client. Copy the generated API key for the next step.
{{{
$ cif_apikeys -u myuser@mydomain.com -a -g everyone -G everyone
}}}
 # Edit *~/.cif* and paste the following configuration in to generate feeds and setup the client. Replace the *apikey* value with the key from the previous command. (_existing keys can be listed with *cif_apikeys -l*_)
{{{
[cif_feeds]
maxrecords = 10000
severity_feeds = high,medium
confidence_feeds = 95,85
apikeys = role_everyone_feed
max_days = 2
disabled_feeds = hash,rir,asn,countrycode,malware

[client]
host = https://127.0.0.1:443/api
apikey = xx-xx-xx-xx-xx #<<<< Paste in the API key from the last step here
timeout = 60
verify_tls = 0
}}} 
 # Run cif_crontool to load data into the database. This should take about 30 minutes to complete. (_Without running this command, CIF won't contain any information until the the hourly and daily cron jobs run._)  
{{{
$ time /opt/cif/bin/cif_crontool -f -d && /opt/cif/bin/cif_crontool -d -p daily && /opt/cif/bin/cif_crontool -d -p hourly
}}}
 # Generate the first set of feeds. This could take up to 2 hours to complete.
{{{
$ time /opt/cif/bin/cif_feeds -d
}}}
 # You should now be able to run queries against your server using the cif client. For details on feed queries, refer to the [http://code.google.com/p/collective-intelligence-framework/wiki/Feeds Feeds wiki].
Examples:
{{{
$ cif -q infrastructure/network -c 85 -s medium
}}}
{{{
$ cif -q url/botnet -c 85 -s medium
}}}
= Enable Analytics and Logging (Optional)= 
Logging has not been setup and analytics has been disabled. To enable analytics, uncomment the following line in the crontab for the cif user:
{{{
#*/5 * * * * /opt/cif/bin/cif_analytic -t 4 -m 4000 &> /dev/null
}}}
To enable logging, follow the 2nd step of *Finishing up* in the server install [http://code.google.com/p/collective-intelligence-framework/wiki/ServerInstall#Finishing_up guide].