#summary developer workflow

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

Our developer workflow is done primarily through git and [https://github.com github]. More generalized information on how to contribute to a project can be found [https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo here].

Other mailing list threads that can be used for [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!tags/ci-framework/developer reference]

The cif-v1 repo is a meta repository with various submodules (cif-smrt, cif-router, libcif, etc) and and their "v1" tree's. The cif-v2 repo is the same, pointing at their various "v2" tree's, and so on.

= Details =
== Forking ==

Goto the cif-v1 [https://github.com/collectiveintel/cif-v1 repo] and click the "fork" button.

== Cloning ==
You can follow instruction provided on github page. Basically, you set you username and clone the git repository:

{{{
git clone --recursive https://github.com/<username>/cif-v1.git
}}}

== Branching ==
v1 is split into several [http://git-scm.com/book/en/Git-Tools-Submodules sub-modules] under the https://github.com/collectiveintel/cif-v1 cif-v1.git] repo:
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/libcif/tree/v1 libcif.git]
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/libcif-dbi/tree/v1 libcif-dbi.git]
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/cif-smrt/tree/v1 cif-smrt.git]
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/cif-router/tree/v1 cif-router.git]
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/libcif-dbi-asn libcif-dbi-asn.git]
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/libcif-dbi-rir libcif-dbi-rir.git]
 * [https://github.com/collectiveintel/libcif-dbi-cc libcif-dbi-cc.git]

If you wish to make changes to any of these sub-modules, you must first change to the corresponding directory within the cif-v1.git repo, then create a new branch for your changes:
{{{
git checkout master -b <your branch name>
}}}

and commit your changes to that submodule.

== Committing ==
Commit your changes:

{{{
git add <changed file(s)>
git commit -m 'my commit message'
}}}

== Pushing ==
Once you're happy with your branch, you can push it back to github:

{{{
git push origin <your branch name>
}}}

== Pull Request ==
To get your changes included in the official branch you need to create a pull request.

To do so, go to your fork page on github and choose the branch you want to merge in the menu.

Once done, click the Pull request button at the top of the page.
You will then be able to choose the branch on which you want to do the pull request.