#summary the basics about datasets and feeds (v1)
#labels Version-1

= <font color="red">Unstable</font> =

= Introduction =

This describes the various dynamically generated data-sets within the framework. These data-sets can be used as:

 * IDS rules
 * name-server zones
 * firewall rules
 * and more...

Before you begin, make sure you review the [Taxonomy_v1 Taxonomy] page. This will help with measuring your risk tolerance and which feed combinations you should use.

The simplest feed to get started with is the [FeedsBotnet#Infrastructure botnet Infrastructure] feed. 

= Output Plugins =
The perl-client has a number of "output plugins" available:
{{{
$ cif -h
Usage: perl /opt/cif/bin/cif -q xyz.com

...
-p  --plugin:           output plugin ('Table','Snort','Csv'), default: Table
}}}

This functionality allows feeds to be written out in other formats removing the need to "parse and convert" the feeds to meet your target device requirements. These formats include:
 * snort rules
 * csv
 * raw json
 * bindzone
 * etc

If another format is required, please let us know. These plugins are typically 10-20 lines of code and are easy to write. All that's required is a sample of the format (eg: example rules, etc). For devices that have the ability to incorporate perl/python code into their operation (eg: NFSEN, bro, etc..), we are writing code that will hook directly into the API allowing these tools to pull the data in directly, rather than having to write them out to rules, re-parse, etc...

{{{
$ /opt/cif/bin/cif -q infrastructure/suspicious -c 85 -p snort

# 193.178.120.0/22 [ip address only / not url / not domain rule]
alert ip any any -> 193.178.120.0/22 any ( msg:"need-to-know - suspicious hijacked prefix"; threshold:type limit,track by_src,count 1,seconds 3600; sid:5000000; reference:url,www.spamhaus.org/sbl/sbl.lasso?query=SBL165502; priority:5; )

# 94.63.147.0/24 [ip address only / not url / not domain rule]
alert ip any any -> 94.63.147.0/24 any ( msg:"need-to-know - suspicious hijacked prefix"; threshold:type limit,track by_src,count 1,seconds 3600; sid:5000001; reference:url,www.spamhaus.org/sbl/sbl.lasso?query=SBL127815; priority:5; )

# 176.112.80.0/21 [ip address only / not url / not domain rule]
alert ip any any -> 176.112.80.0/21 any ( msg:"need-to-know - suspicious hijacked prefix"; threshold:type limit,track by_src,count 1,seconds 3600; sid:5000002; reference:url,www.spamhaus.org/sbl/sbl.lasso?query=SBL137006; priority:5; )
...
}}}

= Details =
By default, servers will deliver feeds with a severity of "high" and a confidence of "95" respectively by default. These paramaters can be over-written at the command-line (typically with the -s and -c flags) or via the [API].

Because of this, *the botnet infrastructure (high severity, high confidence) feed will remain relatively small or even empty* until users enter fairly confidence data either via manual submission, or a known, high-quality data-set is added to the system. This is by design, novice users of the system should use these feeds as starter-feeds to get a feel for the system with-out having to deal with too many false-positives.

Advanced users, who understand their organizations risk tolerance can dig into the more advanced botnet feeds [FeedsBotnet page] or even the [API#Common_Parameters API] to override these default values.

_You'll need the [http://code.google.com/p/collective-intelligence-framework/wiki/PerlClient PerlClient] installed to pull these feeds. There is also a [http://code.google.com/p/collective-intelligence-framework/wiki/PythonClient PythonClient] that has less features, but can be used at your own risk for right now._

== Infrastructure ==
IP-based threats
=== Detection ===
 * detecting botnet controller communication
{{{
$ cif -q infrastructure/botnet -c 85
}}}
=== Mitigation ===
 * mitigation against infection (exploit pages, etc, should use domain or url based where possible)
{{{
$ cif -q infrastructure/malware -c 85
}}}
 * mitigation against brute-force and/or network scanner-based threats
{{{
$ cif -q infrastructure/scan -c 85
}}}

== Domains ==
Domain-based threats
=== Detection ===
 * detecting botnet controller communication:
{{{
cif -q domain/botnet -c 85
}}}
=== Mitigation ===
 * mitigating against infections (exploit pages, etc):
{{{
cif -q domain/malware -c 85 -s medium
}}}
== Urls ==
URL-based threats
=== Detection ===
 * detecting botnet controller traffic:
{{{
cif -q url/botnet -c 85
}}}
=== Mitigation ===
 * mitigation against infection (exploit pages, etc):
{{{
cif -q url/malware -s medium -c 85
}}}
 * mitigation against phishing url lures
{{{
cif -q url/phishing -s medium -c 85
}}}