#summary the basics about datasets and feeds
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />
= Introduction =

This describes the various dynamically generated data-sets within the framework. These data-sets can be used as:

 * IDS rules
 * name-server zones
 * firewall rules
 * and more...

= Getting Started =

Before you begin, make sure you review the [Taxonomy] page. This will help with measuring your risk tolerance and which feed combinations you should use.

The simplest feed to get started with is the [FeedsBotnet#Infrastructure botnet Infrastructure] feed. Typically botnet infrastructure is tagged with a severity of [TaxonomySeverity#High high], meaning, if you combine this with a [TaxonomyConfidence#85_-_94 high confidence] (85-100) observation, it's likely that you're dealing with a compromised host.

= Getting the Feed =
By default, servers will deliver feeds with a severity of "high" and a confidence of "95" respectively by default. These paramaters can be over-written at the command-line (typically with the -s and -c flags) or via the [API#Common_Parameters API].

Because of this, *the botnet infrastructure (high severity, high confidence) feed will remain relatively small or even empty* until users enter fairly confidence data either via manual submission, or a known, high-quality data-set is added to the system. This is by design, novice users of the system should use these feeds as starter-feeds to get a feel for the system with-out having to deal with too many false-positives.

Advanced users, who understand their organizations risk tolerance can dig into the more advanced botnet feeds [FeedsBotnet page] or even the [API] to override these default values.

== Infrastructure ==
=== API ===
{{{
GET https://cif.example.com:443/api/infrastructure/botnet
GET https://cif.example.com:443/api/infrastructure/botnet
}}}
=== CLI ===
{{{
$ cif -q infrastructure/botnet
$ cif -q infrastructure/botnet -p snort
}}}
== Domain ==
=== API ===
{{{
GET https://cif.example.com:443/api/domain/botnet
GET https://cif.example.com:443/api/domain/botnet
}}}
=== CLI ===
{{{
$ cif -q domain/botnet
$ cif -q domain/botnet -p bindzone
}}}
== Url ==
=== API ===
{{{
GET https://cif.example.com:443/api/url/botnet
GET https://cif.example.com:443/api/url/botnet
}}}
=== Url ===
{{{
$ cif -q url/botnet
$ cif -q url/botnet -p raw
}}}