#summary the Server Installation

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Preamble =
 * CIF version 1 beta 1 is *STRICTLY A BETA*
 * BETA 1 does NOT include analytics and feeds, it only pulls in data and allows you to query the data
 * You cannot run this beta on the same box as CIF 0.01, it will break stuff, you will loose your data, you will be angry with me.

= Changes =
 * Moved from JSON to Google Protocol Buffers (protobuf)
 * added compression (compress-snappy)
 * enabled remote database connectivity
 * split out:
  * cif-perl (core cif messaging protocol)
  * cif-dbi-perl (core database interface)
  * cif-smrt (formally cif_feedparser)
  * cif-router (formally CIF::WebAPI)
 * turned cif-router into a driver framework (eg: REST, ZeroMQ are just plugins and can be swapped out)
 * simplified the CIF::Router api (removed severity and restriction from the api)
 * simplified the query data model, most things are now just sha1 hash lookups (with the exception of ipv4/6 addresses)
 * less "index" tables to swap in and out of memory, faster lookups, ip-addr's will probably follow in beta2

= System Requirements =
These requirements will handle everything on the same box pretty well with the default open source data-sets. The more (bigger) data-sets you add, the more ram / disk space you'll need. The more cores you add, the more threads that can "batch out" the feed parsers (thus, resulting in faster data consumption).

These specs will handle around 10k feeds at once with minimal impact on memory usage. Past that you'll need to start doubling your specs. Virtual machine technology is great for prototyping your implementation and will give you a good baseline of what you'll need for production.

 # an x86-64bit platform
 # at-least 8GB ram
 # at-least 4 cores
 # at-least 100GB of free (after OS install) disk space, which will last you about 6-9 months.

= Prerequisites =
== Required Services ==
 # Join the [http://groups.google.com/group/ci-framework mailing list] -- we like to archive the Q & A there. When you ask questions directly, we will usually Cc our responses.
 # DiskLayout
 # PostgresInstall

== System Deps ==
=== Stable ===
 # [ServerInstall_v1_b1_Squeeze Debian Squeeze]
=== Unstable ===
 # [ServerInstall_v1_b1_Generic From Source]

= Install =
== Server ==
 # create the index / archive table spaces if you haven't via DiskLayout already (it's OK if you don't want to use LVM, these directories can exist on your root volume if you choose, but performance will increase if these are spread out across many disks):
{{{
$ sudo mkdir /mnt/archive
$ sudo mkdir /mnt/index
$ sudo chown postgres:postgres /mnt/index
$ sudo chown postgres:postgres /mnt/archive
$ sudo chmod 770 /mnt/index
$ sudo chmod 770 /mnt/archive
}}}
 # create your "cif" user/group (the configure script will default to this user "cif")
{{{
$ sudo adduser --disabled-password --gecos '' cif
}}}
 # if you're upgrading, make sure you've backed up /opt/cif/etc appropriately (if you've modified anything inside it)
 # install the components
 # Install_Msg_v1_b1
 # Install_Dbi_v1_b1
 # Install_Router_v1_b1
 # install_Smrt_v1_b1
}}}